# Introduction

Investigation of transcription factors (TFs) and their downstream regulated
genes (targets) is an important issue in post genome era, which can provide
brand new vision for some vital biological process. However information of TFs
and their targets in mammalian is far from sufficient. Here,we developed an
integrated transcription factor platform (ITFP), which included abundant TFs
and targets message of mammalian.
 
In our work, support vector machine (SVM) algorithm combined with
error-correcting output coding (ECOC) algorithm was utilized to identify and
classify transcription factor from protein sequence of Human, Mouse and Rat.
For transcription factor targets, a reverse engineering method named ARACNE was
used to derive potential interaction pairs between transcription factor and
downstream regulated gene from Human, Mouse and Rat gene expression profile
data. Detailed information of gene expression profile data can be found in help
page. Moreover, all data provided by the platform is free for non-commercial
users and can be downloaded through links on help page.
 
You can get release history of ITFP here. For current release, statistic
information about TFs and interaction pairs between TF and target was depicted
in following table:

    Species             Transcription Factors   TF and Target Pairs     TFs with Target Information
    Homo Sapiens        4105                    69496                   1974
    Mus musculus        3134                    37040                   1340
    Rattus norvegicus   1114                    18055                   541
 
# Reference

1. The combination approach of SVM and ECOC for powerful identification and
classification of transcription factor, Guangyong Zheng, Ziliang Qian, Qing
Yang, Chaochun Wei, Lu Xie, Yangyong Zhu and Yixue Li, BMC Bioinformatics 2008,
9:282.

2. ITFP: an integrated platform of mammalian transcription factors, Guangyong
Zheng, Kang Tu, Qing Yang, Yun Xiong, Chaochun Wei, Lu Xie, Yangyong Zhu, and
Yixue Li, Bioinformatics 2008 24(20):2416-2417.

3. ARACNE: an algorithm for the reconstruction of gene regulatory networks in a
mammalian cellular context, Margolin, A.A., Nemenman, I., Basso, K., Wiggins,
C., Stolovitzky, G., Dalla Favera, R. and Califano, A. BMC Bioinformatics 2006,
7 Suppl 1, S7.
